Hello you wonderful go to people and welcome back.
In this video we're gonna make a different kind of NPC unlike Spike man this isn't gonna be an NPC that
hurts when the it touches it.
This is gonna be the NPC that tax when the bunny is in the right place and then flies a projectile.
Let's make a scary cloud that fires lightning.
Okay let's talk about a cloud NPC cloud NBC isn't going to directly hurt Bunny.
You can move through clouds just fine.
However if bunnies directly underneath the cloud the cloud is going to drop lightning at bunny now you
can only drop lightning once every few seconds.
That's really important.
Otherwise every frame that bunnies underneath the cloud is going to spawn more lightning.
And what you end up with is a terrifying wall of lightning and the cloud is going to gently drift left
and right just like spike around us.
OK.
So clearly we should talk about lightning.
Well lightning I've couldn't hear an NPC I guess is really a hazard.
It's going to drop straight down and it's going to vanish if it hits the terrain or bunny.
Now that means it needs to be able to detect terrain and behave differently depending on what it hits.
It's going to vanish if it's off screen.
We don't want lightning staying around forever if it doesn't hit a platform.
Right.
Let's free the resource.
If we don't need it.
And finally it needs to actually hurt Bunny if it hits bunny.
Otherwise it's just a light and lighting effect.
We don't need that.
OK so let's get to it.
First thing I need to do is make a brand new scene.
It can be a 2D scene analytical cloud.
Now next Monday is going to make a Sprite and under enemies which is graphics and amazing.
Here is a cloud I need to make an animation player.
Boom.
And back to sprite.
Couple of things I want I want a time a note with penalties before and a brand new one I need a way
of detecting if buddy is there.
So let's make a recast that I press CAPS LOCK right recast 2D queries the closest object intersecting
array.
Think of this like a beam of light from an electronic door.
If something breaks that beam of light it will do something great.
Let's put you in and.
The order doesn't matter.
That works fine.
Now if I zoom in you can see your ray cast as close the animation for now.
It's a very very short little blue arrow and we can see here right.
It's casting from its origin 50 pixels down.
Well first off let's move down a bit.
So let's move you down to what you think.
Sixty.
That's pretty good.
It's going to exclude its own parents so it's not going to detect the sprite.
That's good.
And that's clearly not far enough in it.
So let's cast you down to 500.
You know we could probably affirm that and say 750 feels like a nice long area.
One more thing we need to do with a recast and this is really important and really easy to forget if
it's not enabled.
It won't do anything at all.
So let's enable it.
OK now we don't need any kind of collision because we're actually a sprite.
OK.
Clouds can move through things.
That's fine.
What I do want to do is check that this is going to work probably I want to check that when I drift
left and right it's all going to look good.
So it's doing your animation.
And when the quick clouds drift
and nice long animation for eight seconds I feel less alone.
And we need new tracks back up to its parent.
And the keys are in place because animation player is a child of it.
That's nice.
Let's start with a key of 0 0 on the position.
Fantastic.
And let's say it'll take you let's set the snaps to one second so that the play frame will just be in
my place.
And when you think two seconds to drift let's try it two seconds to drift minus 500 boop and then four
seconds six seconds to drift to positive 500.
Put a key there.
Endless loop it and multiply it.
So here's what we should see go left reasonably fast and immediately go back to the right and immediately
get back to the left
awesome.
That's looking pretty good.
Let's put you back to here so we can place you properly and that's looking pretty shiny to save you
two end pieces as cloud TCM and let's instance one end just to make sure I haven't mess ups on the end
pieces on an instance in a cloud I make sure I got my move to selected and just drag you here and press
play
OK.
Looking pretty good now it's a little hard to see him against the background it's a shame but nothing's
gonna work out fine if we wanted to we could modulate the sprite so we could go to visibility and make
it a little bit darker let's see how that looks oh a storm cloud are quite like that yeah.
Here we have a cloud is going to drift left and right and it's not going to do anything is just going
to drift.
Well that's OK.
Now we can make it do things.
But before we do that let's make some lightning so lightning is also gonna be a 2D thing
and it's going to have an area 2D
why is gonna have an error today.
Because it needs to Detective things.
And specifically Bunny and terrain.
So it's going to need some slight collision shape before the collision shape.
Let's put in the icon.
You'll notice there is no lightning on enemies.
I have got sun.
You can't play with that but I'm going to just have a cloud and other particles you'll see.
There are two different lightning a blue and a yellow awesome.
So let's make an animated sprite.
And a brand new Sprite frame.
Click on sprite frame.
And here we go.
Drag those in here playing and that's looking pretty solid.
OK.
Save you as lightning.
You can be an NPC for now.
That's fine.
And let's go back to our area 2D and make sure collisions are correct.
So what are you.
You are not a player you are a hazard.
We can actually take it entirely off the collision and that's fine.
But we needed to detect player and terrain very important it needs to take both.
Let's actually put the collision shape in all this isn't going to do anything.
So collision shape and this can be a nice simple rectangle.
So here is a rectangle shape.
Zoom in and get this more or less right.
In fact that's pretty close to perfect isn't it.
And we can now hide that that we now have collision shape.
Awesome.
One more thing I do want to put in and I'm going to put this as a child of the area.
Beauty is a visibility notifiable.
This is a really useful note.
This is going to do is detect when we're on or off screen and we can use a signal right here.
Does he screen entered and screen exited.
That's the one we want when this signal triggers it's going to destroy the lightning entirely.
Okay so let's add a script of the clouds back to cloud and I'm going to add this on the actual cloud
parent and that's nice and easy.
There we go.
And the first thing to do is figure out if the right cast is colliding while we do this every frame
so function of process.
We don't need to be doing physics process at this point and we're going to get the right cast node and
use a built in function called is colliding.
Now we've set the right course up properly.
It can only collide with the player right.
So the recast not the lightning the right cast is only going to take the player and I should make this
an F segment so if the right cast is colliding.
Fire.
Okay so now let's make it for function call fire and what this wants to do is it wants to spawn a brand
new node as a child of either the Sprite or the to studio.
Let me get a child of the right custody so let's add child add child is going to add a resource as a
node to the same tree.
So one thing to do is tell it what I want to add.
Well I want to add doo doo doo doo doo on the embassy's the lightning scene.
Well that is a string so that's not going to work.
So instead of adding a string let's cast it as an actual resource.
Now at the moment it's saying well wait you've got a resource here.
I need a node.
Okay so we're going to add you in as an instance and that should get rid of the error messages.
So just talk us through what's happening.
We are casting this string as a resource and then we're saying Okay now load in a single instance of
that resource.
In other words load the scene but load a copy of the scene as a node in this tree.
However I don't want it to load for the cloud because cloud is going to be in a different position from
sprite.
Okay so instead let's load this in.
As a child of recast 2D so sprite recast 2D dot at Child load.
Yeah yeah yeah.
And that should just load some lightning.
Well let's check if I press play.
Okay so here's a cloud and two things.
One you'll notice the lightning is the same color as the cloud.
That's okay I'll show how to fix it the second to the lightning is drifting left and right.
We actually don't want that but we can fix that too.
Okay.
First things first let's fix this lightning color.
I shouldn't have used modulate I should have used self modulate.
What's the difference.
Modulate is going to change itself and all of its children.
Lightning is now a child of recast 2D was used just charter sprite.
So instead let's clear that and just make self like an ice Gray.
Now one of us play the lightning should be its original color.
Very nice for the second one.
Let's put a script on lightning so bring your script.
You could be called Lightning G.D..
That's good.
Thankfully one day is all function ready.
I'm going to use a command call set as top level can enable that.
And all this does is say don't inherit position information from your parent.
Okay now that's going to be a little annoying and I'll show you why
my lightning didn't show up as it did.
It's up here.
Look it spawned a 0 0.
Okay so I'm gonna do that.
The next thing to do is set my global position.
Global Position is like position but it doesn't from the parent.
It's just what is my absolute position.
Okay so we need to know what's the global position of the ray me.
That's where you're coming in and that's going to be the parent of this lightning.
So get parents dots global position
and now when I press play
there's a whole bunch of lightning.
Okay so one more thing we need to do.
I want to make sure we only fire when we can.
So here's our timer and it's set to.
What is that.
One second.
Very nice.
Okay so we make a global variable here called time out and then set that to false add on fire.
Well check if we're in time out.
So if not time out then you can spawn the lightning and the lightning war event itself.
Then I want to start the time as a timer not start
this be a one shot timers the moment it finishes the moment it finishes it'll go to zero otherwise it'll
keep looping and looping and looping which can be weird and then we're just going to set timeout equals
true.
All right.
So right now it'll fire and then set the timeout but we need to actually set a signal here don't we.
So let's make a new signal called time out connect that to the cloud and Oh and do here is put time
out he calls false.
Let's take a look.
One every second.
Look at that beautiful.
That's everything we need for the cloud.
Now let's make the lightning much more awesome.
First thing I do is I'm going to make this visibility notify work.
That seems to be the easiest thing.
So let's do a screen exited and connect you to lightning.
Nice and easy.
If you screen you going to cue free.
Let's just check that so piece of lightning rain lovely and very carefully make it over here and now
that piece of lightning should be gonna take a look Yep it's gone awesome.
Just what we needed saying we got to move the lightning down so let's make a function.
Process
and all I do is set my y position so position dot y plus equals.
I mean your speed for this don't we don't make a constant called speed and constant speed equals we
think 200.
Okay so plus equals that be heading down I had to check them ahead.
Now be careful when not using move in slide Move and slide automatically uses deltas lets you speed.
Times Delta.
Why.
Because I wanted to be the same no matter the frame rate.
So let's take a look at that
look at that.
It's falling.
We have falling lightening on are so lovely.
Okay.
We have falling lightning.
I'm happy with that.
Next thing we need to do is we need to check if you're colliding and we do this every frame.
Let's make a new function called manage collision
so right here in New function called manage collision function manage collision feels like there should
be a better name for that and they mean things is hard.
OK.
And I don't need the output.
What do we need to do here.
Well let's make a new variable called collider.
The thing that is colliding.
And that's going to be in the area 2D because this was going to detect the collision and it's going
to be get overlapping bodies.
What is get overlapping bodies do exactly what you might expect if we take a look at the documentation
returns a list of intersecting physics body 2D which is handy because our tile map is made of static
bodies.
Right.
And that's a physics body.
So it's going to return a list of bunnies and tiles.
Great.
Now I want to use a for loop for objects in collider.
So what's this going to do.
Well it's going to make a new conditional check is very much like an if condition.
But what it's doing is it's it's creating a new variable called object and the object is whatever is
inside Collider.
And now we need to do is check what that is.
So if object dot name equal equal because remember I'm checking not setting clear which is a string
let's just check this works out each
so now the line is going to drop if it hits the player should get.
Ouch ouch ouch ouch ouch.
Great.
Well we don't actually want that to print out.
So what I want to do is go to game state.
We've got a group called game states and we're just going to call HUD.
Let's see how has it does it's an open why hazard script to do to do.
I'm just gonna copy this comment right here get tree core group game state hut.
Great.
You can live right there.
Now no matter what is colliding with it we want this to cue free.
I mean go back to this level right here and I'm going to queue free.
So if it's a player hurt the player no matter what.
Remove the lightning.
Okay.
So that should work.
So now if we get the lightning to hit the floor it'll just vanish.
Great.
If we get the lady to Bunny doo doo doo.
Very patient very patient and out.
Awesome.
I could probably speed this up a little bit.
Those guys who lightning and chain you to 300.
I feel like that's more exciting
yeah.
It's looking pretty good.
And that is a fully functional he's a lightning.
Okay.
So let's take it here.
So let's do a nice fun easy challenge.
My challenge to you put some clouds around your level.
Now this might not feel like an actual challenge but no I'm asking you to design a compelling game so
post a video put 2 3 as many clowns you like you're on the level make it challenging make it fair and
when you come back I'm going to do the same thing.
Welcome back.
OK.
Let's put some clouds in.
So I'm ready to leave you.
And let's just duplicate the cloud.
Make sure I'm in move mode and I feel like right here would be a nice evil place to do it.
Underneath that the players should be able to see it coming.
Want to get all of these coins and that feels good.
And you know what.
Let's do another one around here somewhere contemporary popular to this area have a nice and high.
That looks good.
Let's see how that feels
out.
I caught lightning.
I was so proud I was secretive.
I'm going to make it all with three out taking damage.
I didn't I got damaged.
But look we did it.
Awesome.
And that brings us to the end of the video in this video.
We've looked at how to instance a scene right using add child and using the DOT instance function.
We've learned how to use recast 2D nodes and to check what body just entered an area 2D using get overlapping
bodies.
We've also looked at how to use visibility notifies which is kind of fun.
So how's it working out.
How's your level looking shell.
We've got so far I'm really curious to see where guys are coming up with meanwhile great stuff.
And I'll see you on the next video.